---------------
- Battle Pong -
---------------
Dana Olson
http://battlepong.sourceforge.net/

Beta 3 Readme file

Licensed under the GNU Public License
Read LICENSE for more details.


Making it run:
--------------

You've obviously extracted the archive and you are reading this
file, so I'll skip that step.

Next thing to do is to edit the file gamedefs.h.

There is now keyboard support in Battle Pong. You have to define the keys
at compile time, and the keyboard support works in addition to the game pad
support, so you can play two players with no game pads, one game pad, or
two game pads. If you wish to enable keyboard support, find the line that
says ENABLE_KEYBOARD and set that to ENABLE_KEYBOARD 1. If you wish to
disable keyboard support, set it to say ENABLE_KEYBOARD 0.

You can then edit the keys that you would use for the players. The defaults
are the preferred keys, but some people (laptop users in particular) may
not have a keypad to use, so they would want to redefine the keys for
player two.

Next, you will have to decide which you would like to use, a hat or an axis on
your game pad. If you want to use a hat, or on some game pads, the directional pad,
set the line that says USE_HAT to 1. If you want to use an axis, set it to
say USE_HAT 0.

Next, find the line that says PADAXIS and set it to the hat number you would
like to use, starting at 0, or the axis on the game pad you would like to use.

Note that sometimes, the same game pad will use a particular piece of the pad
as either a hat or an axis, depending on the operating system you are using,
and what the driver is set up to use it as.

For example: To use the directional pad of the Interact Hammerhead FX game pad
under Linux, you would set USE_HAT to 0 and PADAXIS to 5. Under Windows, with
the latest drivers from Interact, you would have to set USE_HAT to 1 and set
PADAXIS to 0.

If you are unsure, you can try the default settings of USE_HAT 0 and PADAXIS 1.
This usually works for most game pads.

If you don't have a game pad, you can just leave the default settings for USE_HAT
and for PADAXIS.

Now find the line that says WIN32_VERSION 0. If you are compiling under Windows,
set this to say WIN32_VERSION 1.

If the line ICEBOX_ONLY is 1, then change it to ICEBOX_ONLY 0.

Next thing to do is to go into the snd directory and execute the getmusic.sh
script:

cd snd/
sh getmusic.sh

This will download two OGG files, which you need for the sound track. If
you are using Windows, you'll have to get the OGG files yourself and
rename them appropriately. Note that they will soon be available for download
directly from our website.

Alternately, you can use your own files, just so long as you create the
proper symlinks in this directory.

If you're using Windows, open up the Battle Pong project file in Visual C++
and compile it like a normal program, otherwise, if you're in Linux, type
cd .. to go back to the main directory.

Type in make and hit enter to compile and run the game.

If it fails, you're probably missing a library. You'll need SDL, SDL_ttf,
SDL_image, and SDL_mixer, plus any libraries that they require. Look at
http://www.libsdl.org/ for the necessary files.


Controls:
---------

Navigate the menu using the game pad, and press button 1 to select your
option. If you are using keyboard support, navigate up with the A key,
and navigate down with the Z key. Make your selections with the X key.

Use the game pad to move the player up and down. If you are using keyboard
support, player one moves up with the A key, and moves down with the Z key.
Player two moves up with the 4 on the keypad, and moves down with the 1 on
the keypad by default.

When the screen says "Faceoff!", press button two on the gamepad as rapidly as
you can, so that you can win the faceoff. If keyboard support is enabled,
player one should use the C key, and player two use the 3 on the keypad to
do the faceoff.

Eventually, button one will shoot freeze missiles, but they aren't in Battle
Pong as of yet. With keyboard support enabled, player one would shoot with
the X key, and player two would use the 2 on the keypad.

To quit out of a game, press the last button on your gamepad, or just wait until
you or your opponent hits 5 points. You can also press ESC on the keyboard,
assuming you have keyboard support enabled.
